---
layout: manual
title:It's about change
category: Vision
draft: false
---

##Creating a culture supporting change
Change is coming faster and faster. We need to organize ourselves for change. We need to develop for change. We need to find partners for change. We need to create a culture embracing change. I reference below to an article in the UK service design manual, which is about change. 

Your digital services and the technology on which they are built should enable change, giving you the freedom to evolve your services according to changing user needs, expectations and technology innovation. Improving the way that you produce digital services is more about cultural and behavioural change than it is about Technology. Technology alone will not be able to improve our consumer services. Technology enables change.

##What good looks like
Your digital services are based on user needs, not on organisation structures and processes.
You have:
o	Digital technology team that is knowledgeable about existing and emerging technology options
o	a governance and management structure that is an enabler, not a bottleneck or barrier to change
o	flexible commercial models that meet your needs, eg commodity or utility provision
o	a diverse, competitive market from which to e our suppliers
o	transparency and trust in your supplier relationships
o	pricing competition and the ability to switch between alternative suppliers

##Breaking down barriers to technology change
You may come across inertia or resistance when you try to make necessary changes to your technology or how your service is provided.
Your existing supplier base will tend to resist change – and the more successful a supplier has been working under the old model, and the more entrenched it is, the greater this resistance is likely to be. The changes needed will often be more successfully initiated and produced by those not encumbered by past success – new market entrants and those traditionally closed out from government work, like small or medium-sized businesses.
You may find that you have become locked-in to a particular contract or technology. As part of your consideration of the total cost of ownership of a particular solution, you should have estimated the cost of exit at the start of implementation.
If you try to move and find that cost is a barrier, any unlocking costs that you have identified must be associated with the incumbent supplier/system and not be considered as part of the cost of a new solution.
Building on open standards or selecting products which use them will help you to avoid this problem in the future.

##Understanding fear, uncertainty and doubt
If you have incumbent suppliers, it’s important that you understand and anticipate their likely reaction as they struggle to maintain the status quo and resist change. Incumbent suppliers will have data that reflects the past success of their business models and the way their business worked. They will be less certain about the future and may be concerned about the weakening of their market share and their exposure to genuine, open competition.
The rewards and culture of these companies are likely to be built on their current business model. That will reinforce their internal resistance to change. It’s difficult for them to persuade shareholders and financial investors to replace a well-understood, if obsolete, business model with an approach that favours the treatment of some Technology products as commodities. The IT as utility market is not yet fully established, so they will be uncertain about it even though this model might bring them higher profits on lower revenues.
You’ll also see similar resistance in-house, where many staff may have long grown accustomed to old ways of working. It’s important that as a leader you provide the assistance and mentoring they need to help update their skills and experience. Some may have become dependent on external suppliers’ advice. Some may even have built their career on accreditation in a single supplier’s technologies.

##Why you need an environment that supports change
Flexible technology and services give service managers the ability evolve services and make them responsive to users’ needs. It also avoids costly and more risky big bang changes.
Reducing the risk of lock-in to suppliers, software, service and support, or too old and inefficient Technology, means that you have the ability to choose what best meets the outcomes you are looking for at a sustainable and competitive cost and at a timescale that suits you.

